People living with HIV/AIDS (PLWH) are living longer but with increased risk for functional decline compared to HIV negative adults of the same age. As they get older, PLWH may be at greater risk for age-related comorbidities, including cardiovascular disease, low bone density, and decline in functional capacity. Functional decline in PLWH is associated with premature frailty and early mortality. Literature suggests that slower walking speed is associated with adverse health outcomes, and faster decrease in walking speed is correlated with worse health outcomes. PLWH tend to be less active and thus prone to progressive decline in physical function. To examine the role of the Veterans Aging Cohort Study indices as the predictors of physical activity, we explore the relationship between accelerometry based physical activity and the Veterans Aging Cohort Study indices in the MATCH and the Colorado cohorts.

For the ordinal step data, it was suggested that steps less than 54 steps per minute are excluded due to measurement error. To consider the effect of measurement error for low steps per minute in the MATCH cohort, we considered the following simulation studies. Same data analytic methods are used for the simulations as those of regression. The linear mixed model uses every observation from the dataset and is fitted with a random intercepts model. The linear model calculates the total number of steps done per day and average over 21 days to get one observation per person. The performance of the linear models and the linear mixed models are compared under various scenarios. Datasets were simulated and analyzed using the R software. 

# First Simulation Scenario

The first scenario does not make any adjustments to the simulated dataset. This scenario is performed to examine the power and type 1 error rate across four different regression models as effect size increases. 

# Second Simulation Scenario

The second scenario adds normally distributed noise with a mean 0 and a variance of 10 or 1323 for steps less than different cutoffs for the noise varying from 15 steps per minute to 45 steps per minute in a 10-steps interval. In general, a higher noise cutoff results in larger reduction in power across four different regression models as more observations are affected by noise. A higher variance of noise results in reduction of power across four different models for all different noise cutoff values considered. The question of interest from this scenario is to see if adding noise to low steps affects power and type I error rate across four different models.

# Third Simulation Scenario

The last simulation scenario adds one or more normally distributed noisy step data with a differing mean (0, 15, and 30) that is less than 54 with a variance 1 or 1323 to each day of the simulated dataset for every person. Being paralleled with the second simulation scenario, a higher variance of the noisy data results in reduction of power across four models. Also, adding a larger number of noisy observations (i.e., 20) to each day shows a more drastic reduction in power across all models. Additionally, increasing the mean value of noisy step data has greater effects on power. The question of interest from this scenario is to see if adding noisy steps affects the power and type I error rate across four different models.
